Bitcoin and individual freedom

Bitcoin is the culmination of many years of not only a technological innovation but also of philosophical inquiry. This new technology is as much about ethics of human rights as it is about the premier cryptography innovation and blockchain invention. Although these seem like unrelated topics, over the thousands of years of human beings fighting the grips of coercive powers, bitcoin is just the latest notch on that timeline, and I would argue the most radical and impactful. In this modern age, we take for granted our large governments without inspecting the mechanisms in which it operates. A government would not have nearly as much power as it currently does as it does now if it was not able to control the money. Gold bugs have been arguing this point ever since the gold standard was abandoned. The innovation that bitcoin provides is not only a purely fixed money supply but accessibility to a normal person. Unlike gold, someone who has none of an asset can own and transact with bitcoin within 5 minutes of reading this article. This power is truly world changing.

The government uses a central bank to finance and advance its overbearing and intrusive agenda. Bitcoin as it stands right now is a way for one to completely remove one’s self from the oppressive grip of the nation state. Instead of discussing hypothetical situations in ways to remove the state from our daily lives, bitcoin acts as a practical mechanism to do just that. Since modern fiat currency has become more and more digitized, we as citizens of these counties have become less and less in control of this money. The reason that bitcoin is so revolutionary is because it allows an individual to take control of his/her wealth.
