The philosophy of bitcoin

Bitcoin is the culmination of many years of not only a technological innovation but also of philosophical inquiry. This new technology is as much about ethics of human rights as it is about the premier cryptography innovation and blockchain invention. Although these seem like unrelated topics, over the thousands of years of human beings fighting the grips of coercive powers, bitcoin is just the latest notch on that timeline, and I would argue the most radical and impactful. In this modern age, we take for granted our large governments without inspecting the mechanisms in which it operates. The government uses a central bank to finance and advance its overbearing and intrusive agenda. Bitcoin as it stands right now is a way for one to completely remove one’s self from the oppressive grip of the nation state. Instead of discussing hypothetical situations in ways to remove the state from our daily lives, bitcoin acts as a practical mechanism to do just that. As far as libertarianism goes, I believe that the one unifying topic is cryptocurrency generally and bitcoin specifically. As a symbol of personal liberty and freedom, you need not to look any further than this revolutionary money. Since modern fiat currency has become more and more digitized, we as citizens of these counties have become less and less in control of this money. The reason that bitcoin is so revolutionary is because it Why is money so important? If you agree that money is a way for you to indirectly transfer value for exchange than this value that you posses should be treated very seriously. If you make an income, the time you spend to make your income can never be taken back. We take for granted the coercive nature that governments impose on us in the form of taxes. If you believe that the collection of government taxes is anything less than 100% then you are agreeing that the government has removed time from your life that you will never get back.

Since we have agreed that the money that you make is a way to transfer your personal time into value created, I would suspect that we could agree that this value in the form of money is rightfully yours. If you want to send someone money via the internet, all options either end in restrictions to amount, increased time of transaction, and/or a fee. We take for granted the modern state of banking but we now have a mechanism to instantaneously transfer value from one person to another. Many of the current critiques (to put it lightly) usually include some phrase like: “Bitcoin has no intrinsic value!”. This point is completely irrelevant because the value of bitcoin is what you agree to exchange for it. If you buy one bitcoin right now for a price hovering around 7,500, does it really matter that the intrinsic value is 0. We judge the value by how much a person just paid for it.
Bitcoin is the implementation of libertarian ideology.
