Bretton Woods vs Bitcoin

Introduction

As bitcoin increases its market share as a market-driven money, one cannot help but reflect on past monetary systems that have come to prominence in the world and understand the conception of these systems. No better contrast would be to compare the monetary system created at the Bretton Woods Conference and bitcoin. Although bitcoin is relatively small compared to current world currencies’ market shares and central banks, I am arguing like many others, that bitcoin is a self-contained monetary policy as well as a general monetary system. Thus, this makes it suitable to compare basic characteristics of why the previous systems (i.e. Bretton Woods System) have failed and are inefficient and why bitcoin’s foundation is the opposite. The foundations of these systems, and ideological underpinnings could not be any more contradictory which makes it a fascinating study. Due to its nature, bitcoin should be included as a chapter in monetary history and compared to the various other chapters as a possible rubric for how it will fare in the future. So let’s compare chapters.

The old-world order:

In 1944 professional bureaucrats from around the world convened in Bretton woods to establish a new international monetary system. It was an opportunity for independent countries to produce a system that would establish monetary relationships between these countries that allowed for more control over the money supply. This infamous gathering of bureaucrats perfectly exemplifies the old-world order of politicians naively believing that they can control the functions of money by creating new systems out of thin air. This hubris of politicians has led to all the great economic disasters following the abandonment of the gold standard. One of the main catalysts of the conference was John Maynard Keynes. During the conference, Keynes proposed a world central bank that would create, maintain, and administer a world reserve currency. This plan aimed at mitigating some of the risks that were of concern during the period. Namely, an imbalance of payment between debtors and creditor nations. The fatal flaw to this system like any other system proposed is that the there are no constraints on the money supply which the U.S. will later realize was the ultimate demise of this system.

The dream of Bitcoin:

In a stark juxtaposition to the old-world order of smoked filled rooms of overly ambitious government policies, bitcoin was introduced through various channels on the internet in order to go public. There was no conference, no voting apparatus, and surely not elected officials instituting law. It was not mandated by any government and not forced on anyone to use it. In a sense, the genesis of the bitcoin protocol is the antithesis of every government money or any government sponsored monetary system. By its nature, bitcoin was a spontaneous creation of an acting individual that brought this money to market. The decentralized characteristics of bitcoin is what make it a true market-driven “bottom-up” money that will prosper because individuals implicitly understand the benefits. As a fixed-supply currency, no one need not fear possible tampering by tyrannical leaders to control the supply of the money merely because of political whims.

Conclusion

Bitcoin is larger than just a payment system or an investment vehicle to try and get rich from. It is the practical exercise of individualism and a deliberate act of freedom. It allows individuals to opt-out of this entanglement of government controlled monetary policy and subtle attacks on the purchasing power that we are forced to use. Any artificial devaluing of a currency is unacceptable and should not be tolerated. Fortunately, during this chapter in human history, a citizen does not need to ask permission, lobby, or vote to deploy means that are outside of government control. We are able now as citizens to preserve are wealth and take back control of our lives starting with having full control of our money. That is a hell of a start.
